# Contributing

Contributions are welcome and encouraged. Make sure you take a glance at this guide before contributing.

## Pull requests

Casual contributors should follow the [Fork & Pull model](https://help.github.com/articles/using-pull-requests/#fork--pull) described in the [GitHub pull requests guide](https://help.github.com/articles/using-pull-requests/).

__Fork and pull in a nutshell__

*Before making a pull request [create an issue](https://github.com/Sndicate/sndicate/issues) and tag it appropriately.*

1. Fork the repository and clone your copy
2. Create a named feature branch (please [take note of the branch](#branching) you cut this from)
3. Commit and push your changes to your fork
4. Submit a pull request

__Getting Push Access (Becoming a core contributor)__

If you're really interested in developing the Sndicate project you can become a core contributor. This means you'll get to have a say in the direction the software goes and be granted full access to this repository. There are a couple of ways to become a core contributor:

1. Just ask. Chances are we'll say no but it doesn't hurt. If you have a history of valuable contributions there's a good chance the answer will be yes.
2. Make useful contributions to the project over time. Eventually we'll take note of those whose names show up in discussions and pull requests and we'll either invite you or you can go with the above way and just ask. Chances are the answer is yes.

Core contributors need to play by the rules, know the project inside out, and generally understand the direction the project is going. If you want to become a core contributor just keep committing away.

## Branching

The branching strategy is straightforward but important to anyone contributing to this project. To ensure someone else hasn't already made progress on an issue you've taken on or a feature/fix hasn't already be implemented read this section thoroughly!

First off, when you contribute, make sure you search all open issues for anything relating to what you're trying to work on. Make sure no one is already working on it before moving on.

Next, decide what branch you want to apply your commits to. The following explains the standard branches:

__Master__ - The master branch contains the most recent stable release of Sndicate including hotfixes (from version 0.1.0 onward). There is rarely if ever any reason to cut a branch off of master to make a contribution. The only time you would ever branch off master is to commit a hotfix for a critical bug.

__Develop__ - This is where all the major development takes place. The next Sndicate release is formed in the develop branch then merged into master. When working on a fix or feature you should almost always cut your branch off of `develop`. When your code is ready for primtetime it'll be merged into `develop`, tested, then merged back into `master` upon the next release.

__Features and Bug fixes__ - These are contributor branches. Once you cut your branch off of `develop` you'll name it something like `feat-my-proposed-feature` and commit to that branch. When working on a bug you'll create a branch named something like `fix-[github-issue-number-here]` where "[github-issue-number-here]" is the assigned number of the issue your code is meant to fix. If there is no issue number create it the issue yourself. Feature branches can also include these numbers but should ideally also include some text describing the feature.

__Hotfixes__ - This is the only time you'd cut a branch from master. Reserved for things like urgent security vulnerabilities or bugs that will cause major damage to a large portion of the user base. Please name your branch in the format of `hotfix-xxxx` where "xxxx" is the GitHub issue number. If no issue exists create it first and tag it appropriately.

## Writing tests

Sndicate uses Rspec for testing. It is greatly appreciated if you write tests that cover your changes but it isn't required. If changes you make to the application code break existing tests you should fix the tests. Failing to do this can severely delay or prevent pull requests from being merged depending on the size of the change. Please commit your feature/bugix code and test/spec code separately so we can see the changes made to each before accepting pull requests.

## Code Style

Please take care to maintain the existing styles. See the [.editorconfig](.editorconfig) file to learn about the code style we use for each language making up the project. Check out [EditorConfig](http://EditorConfig.org) and if you have an EditorConfig compatible text editor you'll be 90% of the way to maintaining the existing styles without even trying.

### Comment styles & Documentation

Documentation is generated by YARD and comments should be compatible with YARD when appropriate (you may also write any necessary comments Rdoc style if you aren't familiar with YARD as YARD is compatible with Rdoc).

### General styles by language

All files should have a trailing new line. Spaces are preferred over tab characters for all files.

- `.rb` `.ru` `.rake` `.md` `.erb` files use a 2-space indent
- `.yml` and `.yaml` files get a 4-space indent

## Conclusion

Did we miss anything? You can always make a pull request if we did...
